Chapter 1 .
Once when I was six years old I saw a magnificent picture in a book , called True Stories from Nature , about the primeval forest .
It was a picture of a boa constrictor in the act of swallowing an animal .
Here is a copy of the drawing .
In the book it said : " Boa constrictors swallow their prey whole , without chewing it .
After that they are not able to move , and they sleep through the six months that they need for digestion . "
I pondered deeply , then , over the adventures of the jungle .
And after some work with a colored pencil I succeeded in making my first drawing .
My Drawing Number One .
It looked like this : I showed my masterpiece to the grown - ups , and asked them whether the drawing frightened them .
But they answered : " Frighten ?
Why should any one be frightened by a hat ? "
My drawing was not a picture of a hat .
It was a picture of a boa constrictor digesting an elephant .
But since the grown - ups were not able to understand it , I made another drawing : I drew the inside of the boa constrictor , so that the grown - ups could see it clearly .
They always need to have things explained .
My Drawing Number Two looked like this : The grown - ups ' response , this time , was to advise me to lay aside my drawings of boa constrictors , whether from the inside or the outside , and devote myself instead to geography , history , arithmetic and grammar .
That is why , at the age of six , I gave up what might have been a magnificent career as a painter .
I had been disheartened by the failure of my Drawing Number One and my Drawing Number Two .
Grown - ups never understand anything by themselves , and it is tiresome for children to be always and forever explaining things to them .
So then I chose another profession , and learned to pilot airplanes .
I have flown a little over all parts of the world ; and it is true that geography has been very useful to me .
At a glance I can distinguish China from Arizona .
If one gets lost in the night , such knowledge is valuable .
In the course of this life I have had a great many encounters with a great many people who have been concerned with matters of consequence .
I have lived a great deal among grown - ups .
I have seen them intimately , close at hand .
And that has n't much improved my opinion of them .
Whenever I met one of them who seemed to me at all clear - sighted , I tried the experiment of showing him my Drawing Number One , which I have always kept .
I would try to find out , so , if this was a person of true understanding .
But , whoever it was , he , or she , would always say : " That is a hat . "
Then I would never talk to that person about boa constrictors , or primeval forests , or stars .
I would bring myself down to his level .
I would talk to him about bridge , and golf , and politics , and neckties .
And the grown - up would be greatly pleased to have met such a sensible man .
Chapter 2 .
So I lived my life alone , without anyone that I could really talk to , until I had an accident with my plane in the Desert of Sahara , six years ago .
Something was broken in my engine .
And as I had with me neither a mechanic nor any passengers , I set myself to attempt the difficult repairs all alone .
It was a question of life or death for me : I had scarcely enough drinking water to last a week .
The first night , then , I went to sleep on the sand , a thousand miles from any human habitation .
I was more isolated than a shipwrecked sailor on a raft in the middle of the ocean .
Thus you can imagine my amazement , at sunrise , when I was awakened by an odd little voice .
It said : " If you please -- draw me a sheep ! "
" What ! "
" Draw me a sheep ! "
I jumped to my feet , completely thunderstruck .
I blinked my eyes hard .
I looked carefully all around me .
And I saw a most extraordinary small person , who stood there examining me with great seriousness .
Here you may see the best portrait that , later , I was able to make of him .
But my drawing is certainly very much less charming than its model .
That , however , is not my fault .
The grown - ups discouraged me in my painter 's career when I was six years old , and I never learned to draw anything , except boas from the outside and boas from the inside .
Now I stared at this sudden apparition with my eyes fairly starting out of my head in astonishment .
Remember , I had crashed in the desert a thousand miles from any inhabited region .
And yet my little man seemed neither to be straying uncertainly among the sands , nor to be fainting from fatigue or hunger or thirst or fear .
Nothing about him gave any suggestion of a child lost in the middle of the desert , a thousand miles from any human habitation .
When at last I was able to speak , I said to him : " But -- what are you doing here ? "
And in answer he repeated , very slowly , as if he were speaking of a matter of great consequence : " If you please -- draw me a sheep ... "
When a mystery is too overpowering , one dare not disobey .
Absurd as it might seem to me , a thousand miles from any human habitation and in danger of death , I took out of my pocket a sheet of paper and my fountain - pen .
But then I remembered how my studies had been concentrated on geography , history , arithmetic , and grammar , and I told the little chap ( a little crossly , too ) that I did not know how to draw .
He answered me : " That does n't matter .
Draw me a sheep ... "
But I had never drawn a sheep .
So I drew for him one of the two pictures I had drawn so often .
It was that of the boa constrictor from the outside .
And I was astounded to hear the little fellow greet it with , " No , no , no !
I do not want an elephant inside a boa constrictor .
A boa constrictor is a very dangerous creature , and an elephant is very cumbersome .
Where I live , everything is very small .
What I need is a sheep .
Draw me a sheep . "
So then I made a drawing .
He looked at it carefully , then he said : " No .
This sheep is already very sickly .
Make me another . "
So I made another drawing .
My friend smiled gently and indulgently .
" You see yourself , " he said , " that this is not a sheep .
This is a ram .
It has horns . "
So then I did my drawing over once more .
But it was rejected too , just like the others .
" This one is too old .
I want a sheep that will live a long time . "
By this time my patience was exhausted , because I was in a hurry to start taking my engine apart .
So I tossed off this drawing .
And I threw out an explanation with it .
" This is only his box .
The sheep you asked for is inside . "
I was very surprised to see a light break over the face of my young judge : " That is exactly the way I wanted it !
Do you think that this sheep will have to have a great deal of grass ? "
" Why ? "
" Because where I live everything is very small ... "
" There will surely be enough grass for him , "
I said .
" It is a very small sheep that I have given you . "
He bent his head over the drawing : " Not so small that -- Look !
